Restructure CWS best practices (#6992)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/webstore/best_practices/index.md

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: Best Practices
seoTitle: Best Practices for Chrome extensions
date: 2017-08-30
updated: 2023-08-07
description: >
  How to create a high-quality extension and Chrome Web store listing.
---

> ## Overview {: #design-a-high-quality-extension}

Author: Totally get your point. However, I'm keeping the header-id to ensure any links to this section still work.

This page provides guidelines for designing a [high-quality extension][hq-guidelines] and Chrome Web Store listing. These recommendations may be updated as the store continues to grow and we learn from developers' experiences. We strongly encourage you to create extensions that meet standards for compliance, performance, security, and user experience, as described in the following sections.

## Compliance {: #compliance}

Extensions that are available in the Chrome Web Store are required to adhere to the [developer program policies][program-policies]. If you've received a policy violation warning or want to learn about common violations pitfalls, see [Troubleshooting Chrome Web Store violations][cws-violations].

## Manifest Version 3

Manifest V3 is the most recent version of the Chrome extension platform and is the required version for submitting new items to the Chrome Web Store. See the [Manifest V3 overview][mv3-overview] to learn about the platform changes. Existing extensions should consider migrating to Manifest V3, see [Migrate to Manifest V3][mv3-migration] for instructions on how to migrate.

## Security

> Your extension should be safe for your users. For example, transmit user data securely via HTTPS or WSS. Stored user data must be strongly encrypted using RSA or AES. Check that your extension does not pose security threats and does not use [deceptive installation tactics][deceptive-install]. See [Stay secure][stay-secure] for a more in-depth discussion.

Author: ```suggestion
Your extension should be safe for your users. For example, send user data securely via HTTPS or WSS. Check that your extension does not pose security threats and does not use [deceptive installation tactics][deceptive-install]. See [Stay secure][stay-secure] for a more in-depth discussion.
```
Add in another iteration

## Performance and functionality {: #performance}

Add end-to-end tests using testing libraries like [Puppeteer][puppeteer] to make sure your extension is performing as intended from start to finish. In addition, consider conducting thorough manual testing across different browser versions, OSs, and network conditions to ensure smooth functionality.

## User experience {: #user-experience }

Design your extension with the user in mind by providing a simple, intuitive, and seamless user interface while also respecting user privacy.

### Onboarding experience

Start onboarding your users as soon as they reach your store listing by providing screenshots and a video of how the extension works. We recommend following the [permission warning guidelines][doc-perm-warn] to increase the chances of users installing your extension.

### Designing a persistent UI

> When designing a [side panel][api-sidepanel] for your extension, make sure it enhances the user's browsing experience by providing relevant information and useful functionality. A side panel should help users accomplish tasks with as little distraction as possible.

Author: The wording was requested by David/Alex to match the [quality guidelines](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/webstore/program-policies/quality-guidelines/#:~:text=If%20utilizing%20a%20persistent%20user%20interface%2C%20extensions%20should%20actively%20enhance%20the%20user%27s%20current%20task%20while%20causing%20minimal%20distractions.) 

I'm open to another suggestion... 🤷🏻‍♀️

> When designing a [side panel][api-sidepanel] for your extension, make sure it enhances the user's browsing experience by providing relevant information and useful functionality. A side panel should help users accomplish tasks with as little distraction as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avoid distracting users when implementing a persistent UI. For example, when designing a [side panel][api-sidepanel] for your extension, make sure it enhances the user's browsing experience by providing relevant information and useful functionality. A side panel should help users accomplish tasks with as little distraction as possible.
```

[dashboard-privacy]: /docs/webstore/cws-dashboard-privacy/
[deceptive-install]: /docs/webstore/program-policies/deceptive-installation-tactics/
[doc-perm-warn]: /docs/extensions/mv3/permission_warnings/
[google-signin]: https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/overview
[great-listing-page]: /docs/webstore/best_listing/
[hq-guidelines]: /docs/webstore/program-policies/quality-guidelines/
[hq-listing-images]: /docs/webstore/best_listing/#images
[identify-user]: /docs/webstore/identify_user
[identity-api]: /docs/extensions/reference/identity/
[mv3-migration]: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/migrating/
[mv3-overview]: /docs/extensions/mv3/intro/mv3-overview/
[oauth2-tutorial]: /docs/extensions/mv3/tut_oauth/
[privacy-policy]: /docs/webstore/publish/#setup-a-developer-account
[privacy-tab]: /docs/webstore/cws-dashboard-privacy/#certify-your-data-use-practices
[program-policies]: /docs/webstore/program-policies/
[puppeteer]: https://pptr.dev/guides/chrome-extensions
[single-purpose]: /docs/extensions/mv3/single_purpose/
[stay-secure]: /docs/extensions/mv3/security/
[supplying-images]: /docs/webstore/images/
[user-data-faq]: /docs/webstore/user_data/

> [user-data]: /docs/webstore/user_data/

Author: 😶‍🌫️
